***The details for this will be presented a few different ways starting with prep image in VM. At this time my older 22.04 Jammy Jelly Fish is still running on host machine and will remain so during this writing. But I want to show the correct way to do the steps with the most modern approaches and in my opinion the better or more desired approaches in most cases. There are some specifics to GPU Driver binding especially here worth pointing out. Steps will be simplified but in theory still be working examples and might review a couple of things from my current setup to cover this, all in all this work is part of me documenting my journey to move 24.04 LTS to my physical host machine. Skills demonstrated here will be useful and help in all of the gpu related projects, this includes, GPU Passthrough, GPU Partitioning, NVIDIA DMA and AMD DIRECT GMA, the first project is single passthrough and I think easiest. For all projects Recommended HW, is at least a laptop with which you decide you do not want windows anymore and has built-in AMD Discrete GPU, and has an Intel or AMD IGPU (Integrated GPU on CPU), thunderbolt 4, or USB 4 with PCIE Tunneling supported, and an egpu enclosure with an Nvidia Card - minimally maybe, NVIDIA GTX 1650, NVIDIA GTX 1660 Super, NVIDIA RTX 2060. Keep in mind the use case is for demo and experiment, yes they are powerful and can play games but still mostly for practice, but since the nvidia one is egpu maybe can borrow it easy for a game on one computer and gpu understanding on another (newer more powerful gpu has more abilities). Since I am on a desktop my config is a bit different, but should work on laptops, I am only recommending the laptop route for this as it seems to be the least cost, and easiest hands on component connecting process, devs out there are working hard to make the laptops work if they don't so can always to see if options out there are avail to correct something that might specifically not work on a laptop, so I cannot gaurantee everything will work, but I would always be happy to look or grab details.***